README.md, before:

# Conway's Game of Life in SFML


# CMake SFML Project Template

This repository template should allow for a fast and hassle-free kick start of your next SFML project using CMake.
Thanks to [GitHub's nature of templates](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template), you can fork this repository without inheriting its Git history.

The template starts out very basic, but might receive additional features over time:

- Basic CMake script to build your project and link SFML on any operating system
- Basic [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) script for all major platforms

## How to Use

1. Install Git and CMake. Use your system's package manager if available.
1. Follow [GitHub's instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template) for how to use their project template feature to create your own project.
1. Clone your new GitHub repo and open the repo in your text editor of choice.
1. Open [CMakeLists.txt](CMakeLists.txt). Rename the project and the executable to whatever name you want.
1. If you want to add or remove any .cpp files, change the source files listed in the `add_executable` call in CMakeLists.txt to match the source files your project requires. If you plan on keeping the default main.cpp file then no changes are required.
1. If your code uses the Audio or Network modules then add `sfml-audio` or `sfml-network` to the `target_link_libraries` call alongside the existing `sfml-graphics` library that is being linked.
1. If you use Linux, install SFML's dependencies using your system package manager. On Ubuntu and other Debian-based distributions you can use the following commands:
    ```
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install \
        libxrandr-dev \
        libxcursor-dev \
        libudev-dev \
        libfreetype-dev \
        libopenal-dev \
        libflac-dev \
        libvorbis-dev \
        libgl1-mesa-dev \
        libegl1-mesa-dev
    ```
1. Configure and build your project. Most popular IDEs support CMake projects with very little effort on your part.
    - [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) via the [CMake extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/cmake-linux)
    - [Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/cmake-projects-in-visual-studio?view=msvc-170)
    - [CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/features/cmake-support.html)
    - [Qt Creator](https://doc.qt.io/qtcreator/creator-project-cmake.html)

    Using CMake from the command line is straightforward as well.
    Be sure to run these commands in the root directory of the project you just created.

    ```
    cmake -B build
    cmake --build build
    ```
1. Enjoy!

## Upgrading SFML

SFML is found via CMake's [FetchContent](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/module/FetchContent.html) module.
FetchContent automatically downloads SFML from GitHub and builds it alongside your own code.
Beyond the convenience of not having to install SFML yourself, this ensures ABI compatibility and simplifies things like specifying static versus shared libraries.

Modifying what version of SFML you want is as easy as changing the [`GIT_TAG`](CMakeLists.txt#L7) argument.
Currently it uses the latest in-development version of SFML 2 via the `2.6.x` tag.
If you're feeling adventurous and want to give SFML 3 a try, use the `master` tag.
Beware, this requires changing your code to suit the modified API!
The nice folks in the [SFML community](https://github.com/SFML/SFML#community) can help you with that transition and the bugs you may encounter along the way.

## But I want to...

Modify CMake options by adding them as configuration parameters (with a `-D` flag) or by modifying the contents of CMakeCache.txt and rebuilding.

### Change Compilers

See the variety of [`CMAKE_<LANG>_COMPILER`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_LANG_COMPILER.html) options.
In particular you'll want to modify `CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER` to point to the C++ compiler you wish to use.

### Change Compiler Optimizations

CMake abstracts away specific optimizer flags through the [`CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE.html) option.
By default this project recommends `Release` builds which enable optimizations.
Other build types include `Debug` builds which enable debug symbols but disable optimizations.
If you're using a multi-configuration generator (as is often the case on Windows), you can modify the [`CMAKE_CONFIGURATION_TYPES`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_CONFIGURATION_TYPES.html#variable:CMAKE_CONFIGURATION_TYPES) option.

### Change Generators

While CMake will attempt to pick a suitable default generator, some systems offer a number of generators to choose from.
Ubuntu, for example, offers Makefiles and Ninja as two potential options.
For a list of generators, click [here](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generators.7.html).
To modify the generator you're using you must reconfigure your project providing a `-G` flag with a value corresponding to the generator you want.
You can't simply modify an entry in the CMakeCache.txt file unlike the above options.
Then you may rebuild your project with this new generator.

## More Reading

Here are some useful resources if you want to learn more about CMake:

- [How to Use CMake Without the Agonizing Pain - Part 1](https://alexreinking.com/blog/how-to-use-cmake-without-the-agonizing-pain-part-1.html)
- [How to Use CMake Without the Agonizing Pain - Part 2](https://alexreinking.com/blog/how-to-use-cmake-without-the-agonizing-pain-part-2.html)
- [Better CMake YouTube series by Jefferon Amstutz](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8i3OhJb4FNV10aIZ8oF0AA46HgA2ed8g)

## License

The source code is dual licensed under Public Domain and MIT -- choose whichever you prefer.

Commit message:

Adding source code for running game of life

README.md, after:

# Conway's Game of Life in SFML

## Instructions for Installing and running
From this directory, build the project with:
`mkdir build`
`cd build`
`cmake ../`
`make -j4`

# CMake SFML Project Template

This repository template should allow for a fast and hassle-free kick start of your next SFML project using CMake.
Thanks to [GitHub's nature of templates](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template), you can fork this repository without inheriting its Git history.

The template starts out very basic, but might receive additional features over time:

- Basic CMake script to build your project and link SFML on any operating system
- Basic [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) script for all major platforms

## How to Use

1. Install Git and CMake. Use your system's package manager if available.
1. Follow [GitHub's instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template) for how to use their project template feature to create your own project.
1. Clone your new GitHub repo and open the repo in your text editor of choice.
1. Open [CMakeLists.txt](CMakeLists.txt). Rename the project and the executable to whatever name you want.
1. If you want to add or remove any .cpp files, change the source files listed in the `add_executable` call in CMakeLists.txt to match the source files your project requires. If you plan on keeping the default main.cpp file then no changes are required.
1. If your code uses the Audio or Network modules then add `sfml-audio` or `sfml-network` to the `target_link_libraries` call alongside the existing `sfml-graphics` library that is being linked.
1. If you use Linux, install SFML's dependencies using your system package manager. On Ubuntu and other Debian-based distributions you can use the following commands:
    ```
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install \
        libxrandr-dev \
        libxcursor-dev \
        libudev-dev \
        libfreetype-dev \
        libopenal-dev \
        libflac-dev \
        libvorbis-dev \
        libgl1-mesa-dev \
        libegl1-mesa-dev
    ```
1. Configure and build your project. Most popular IDEs support CMake projects with very little effort on your part.
    - [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) via the [CMake extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/cmake-linux)
    - [Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/cmake-projects-in-visual-studio?view=msvc-170)
    - [CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/features/cmake-support.html)
    - [Qt Creator](https://doc.qt.io/qtcreator/creator-project-cmake.html)

    Using CMake from the command line is straightforward as well.
    Be sure to run these commands in the root directory of the project you just created.

    ```
    cmake -B build
    cmake --build build
    ```
1. Enjoy!

## Upgrading SFML

SFML is found via CMake's [FetchContent](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/module/FetchContent.html) module.
FetchContent automatically downloads SFML from GitHub and builds it alongside your own code.
Beyond the convenience of not having to install SFML yourself, this ensures ABI compatibility and simplifies things like specifying static versus shared libraries.

Modifying what version of SFML you want is as easy as changing the [`GIT_TAG`](CMakeLists.txt#L7) argument.
Currently it uses the latest in-development version of SFML 2 via the `2.6.x` tag.
If you're feeling adventurous and want to give SFML 3 a try, use the `master` tag.
Beware, this requires changing your code to suit the modified API!
The nice folks in the [SFML community](https://github.com/SFML/SFML#community) can help you with that transition and the bugs you may encounter along the way.

## But I want to...

Modify CMake options by adding them as configuration parameters (with a `-D` flag) or by modifying the contents of CMakeCache.txt and rebuilding.

### Change Compilers

See the variety of [`CMAKE_<LANG>_COMPILER`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_LANG_COMPILER.html) options.
In particular you'll want to modify `CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER` to point to the C++ compiler you wish to use.

### Change Compiler Optimizations

CMake abstracts away specific optimizer flags through the [`CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE.html) option.
By default this project recommends `Release` builds which enable optimizations.
Other build types include `Debug` builds which enable debug symbols but disable optimizations.
If you're using a multi-configuration generator (as is often the case on Windows), you can modify the [`CMAKE_CONFIGURATION_TYPES`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_CONFIGURATION_TYPES.html#variable:CMAKE_CONFIGURATION_TYPES) option.

### Change Generators

While CMake will attempt to pick a suitable default generator, some systems offer a number of generators to choose from.
Ubuntu, for example, offers Makefiles and Ninja as two potential options.
For a list of generators, click [here](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generators.7.html).
To modify the generator you're using you must reconfigure your project providing a `-G` flag with a value corresponding to the generator you want.
You can't simply modify an entry in the CMakeCache.txt file unlike the above options.
Then you may rebuild your project with this new generator.

## More Reading

Here are some useful resources if you want to learn more about CMake:

- [How to Use CMake Without the Agonizing Pain - Part 1](https://alexreinking.com/blog/how-to-use-cmake-without-the-agonizing-pain-part-1.html)
- [How to Use CMake Without the Agonizing Pain - Part 2](https://alexreinking.com/blog/how-to-use-cmake-without-the-agonizing-pain-part-2.html)
- [Better CMake YouTube series by Jefferon Amstutz](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8i3OhJb4FNV10aIZ8oF0AA46HgA2ed8g)

## License

The source code is dual licensed under Public Domain and MIT -- choose whichever you prefer.
